October 2015
				PART A

7)FORWARD CHAINING:The Standard definition of a forward chaining system states 
that it is a problem solving technique used by Expert Systems when they are faced 
 with a scenario and have to give a solution or conclusion to this scenario.The 
 system will work its way through the rules, finding which ones fit and which 
 leads to which using Deductive Reasoning.An inference engine uses 
forward chaining searches the inference rules until it finds where the 
IF clause is known to be true.whenever it can conclude or infer the 
THEN clause,resulting in the addition of new information to its 
dataset.In other words it starts with some facts and applies 
rule to find all possible conclusions.therefore forward 
chaining system is also known as data  driven system.

EXAMPLE:
Rules
R1:IF hot AND smoky THEN ADD fire
R2:IF alarm_beeps THEN ADD smoky
R3:if fire THEN ADD switch_on_sprinklers 
Facts
F1:alarm_beeps[Given]
F2:hot[Given]
F3:smoky[from F1 by R2]
F4:fire[from F2,F4 by R1]
F5:switch_on_sprinklers[from F4 by R3]

In a forward chaining system facts are held in a working memory condition-action, 
rules represents actions to take when specified facts occour in working memory.
Typically the actions involve adding or deleting facts from working memory.

Properties of Forward Chaining:
1)All rules which can fire will do fire.
2)Set of rules that can fire is known as conflict set.
3)Decision about which rule to fire--Conflict resolution.

8)BACKWARD CHAINING:Its a reasoning technique employed by expert systems to take, what we call in technical terms, a goal, and prove that this goal
was founded legitimately according to the rule base it possesses. It is a form of reverse engineering, which is very applicable in situations where 
there are so many rules that could be applied to a single problem.Same rules or facts may be processed differently by using backward chaining interpreter

EXAMPLE:
Hypothesis("Should i switch the sprinklers on?")
Rules
R1:IF hot AND smoky THEN fire
R2:IF alarm_beeps THEN smoky
R3:if fire THEN switch_on_sprinklers
Facts
F1:hot
F2:alarm_beeps
Goal:
Switch on sprinklers

Backward chaining systems are good for diagnostic and classification tasks, but they are not good for planning,design,process Monitioring and quite a few other
tasks.Forward chaining systems can handle these tasks.backward chaining tries to focus and tries to avoid exploring unnecessary paths for reasoning.Backward Chaining
is more appropriate when the conclusion is already known. It will seems to run more efficiently than its counterpart, but can only be used in that context.

